One java thread corresponds to one OS thread. Creating a thread is expensive operation.
In fixed thread pool executor internally a blocking queue is used.

Number of cores equals to number of threads that can be executed by an cpu in parallel. However a core can have multiple threads as well.Physical cpu contains cores.
Sometimes ideal pool size or threads is equal to number of cores available. But other things need to be considered as well like our application might not be only application on this server/cpu.
For cpu intensive operations ideal pool size is equal to number of cores
For io intensive operations like http calls, database calls we can have large thread pool. as many threads will be in waiting state - waiting for response. 
Cpu intensive operations - cpu core count however consider other applications
Io intensive - high thread pool however depends on rate of task submission and average wait time for task to complete. too many threads increase memory consumption

Thread pool types 
fixed thread pool - fixed number of worker threads and you keep submitting task to a thread safe queue. 
core pool size and max pool size is same in this case. 
it used linked blocking queue as number of threads are limited so we need data structure that is unlimited that can store all the tasks
cached thread pool - synchronous queue which has space only for a single item. pool searches for an exisiting threads or creates a thread to execute the task that has been submitted to this single item queue.
cached thread pool can create large number of threads. we dont have control how many threads are created
scheduled thread pool - task schedule after a certain delay and retrigger after time delay. items in the queue are sorted according to their execution time.
single threaded executor - single thread. if task throws exception the thread is killed however a new thread is created by pool to execute further tasks. this pool is used when we want to maintain order of execution of tasks.


for runnable tasks you can use both execute or submit. for callable only submit is used.

